---
title: Another Saturday
date: 2023-10-21
--- 

It is Saturday. It is approaching the end of October, meaning that my first draft of my PhD thesis is due to my supervisors very soon. It is an exciting time, but I just can't help to feel a little bit........ hmm... I don't know how to describe how I feel. 

Let me try... 

I feel like I have no energy. I feel as though there is still so much to do, but I am stuck. I feel like I am in a situation where I want to do something new and exciting but I cannot change my current circumstances because I need to finish my PhD. Does anyone else feel this way? 

Nick said to me the other day, "you haven't written in your blog in a few months..." To me, it felt like it was only a few weeks. Now that I look, the last time I wrote was in August. I guess the reason that I haven't been writing, is that I've been so consumed with finishing my PhD and thinking about what happens next. I didn't really have the energy to maintain my blog. However, now that I write, I am actually feeling really great. This blog makes me feel like I am building something and working towards something great. 

So today, I have decided to repost my PhD lessons. I feel like these posts can really help someone who is in similar shoes to me. I also feel like I need to post it now, as I had advertised my blog yesterday at the [PolyNSW](/phd/conferences/polynsw) symposium. Check out the updates in: 

1. [Lessons from my PhD](/phd/conferences/polynsw)
2. [PolyNSW](/phd/conferences/polynsw) 
3. [If I could start my PhD again](/phd/starting-over-a-phd)
