---
title: is it time to freak out yet?
date: 2023-11-18
draft: true
---
At the end of October, I sent my first draft of my PhD thesis to my supervisors for review. I thought I had a bit of time to relax before they sent it back, and during that time I was planning to write a paper. I was shocked when one of my supervisors sent it back within a fortnight! It was so quick and I was so happy. Last week, I also sent a manuscript around for review, which we were going to discuss at last Thursday's meeting (9 Nov 2023). 

Now before I tell you how the meeting went, I need to give you some context on my Thursday meetings. 

Every Thursday for the past 4 years, I have met with my supervisors to discuss my work. There is one particular supervisor who made me feel like crap every week - putting me down and telling me that my work wasn't very good. I would often cry and be so deflated for the rest of the week. In hinesight, I should've realised that I wasn't being attacked personally... but it's difficult to reason like that when my biggest insecurity is my intelligence. Therefore, I stopped sharing a lot of the new and creative things that I was trying in the lab because I didn't want to feel bad anymore. That's also the reason that I never wrote any manuscripts, because she made me feel so bad about myself that I was convinced my work wasn't very good. 

Last Thursday, I had a meeting with all of my supervisors about a manuscript that I wrote. Prior to the meeting, I told myself "it doesn't matter what happens, or what they think about it, because after I finish my PhD, I am going to find a job away from academia." I tried so hard to be strong. However, during the meeting, I was put down about my experiments and basically told that it was not very good by that particular supervisor that has always made me feel crap throughout my PhD. 

Afterwards, I went home and cried for the rest of the day. I was panicking that I was totally worthless and had no skills. I was so concerned that I had wasted 4 years of my life with nothing to show for it. On Friday (10 Nov), I had a mid-day nap. During this nap, I dreamed that I was in a meeting with my three supervisors and calmly, they told me that my PhD was crap and that we should consider downgrading to a masters degree. 

Once I woke up from this nightmare, I went into freak-out mode. My mind was constantly thinking "I've just wasted 4 years of my life... 4 years where I could have done anything else, built up other skills or started a career and earned/saved money." "I'm never going to amount to anything."

These thoughts still elude my mind. It's probably the reason that I lost my vision yesterday as a result of a migraine. 

However, I just need to remind myself that it will be over soon and I will be so happy with the final product.



