---
title: Electrochemistry and polymers
draft: true
---

## What is electrochemistry?
The obvious answer is that electrochemistry is chemistry that involves using an electric charge. While in organic synthesis reactions, we use proton acceptors and donors to aid in the movement of electrons, electrochemistry utilises electric charge to move electrons. In this reaction, molecules will collide with an electrode or conductive substrate. The result is either oxidation or reduction of the material at the electrode/electrolyte interface in the electrochemical cell.[1]
 
Fig 1. three-electrode electrochemical cell
Electrochemical cells consist of a working, counter, and reference electrode and can be divided into two-, three- and four- electrode systems. Three-electrode system configurations are the most reported for conducting polymer synthesis and characterisation. The three-electrode system sets up the working and counter, facing each other to generate an electric field (Fig 1). The reference electrode should be situated close to the working electrode but not interfere with the electric field generated by the counter electrode. 
The type of reference electrode used will depend on the type of system employed. In organic systems, a Ag/Ag+ from Ag/AgNO3 is used, while in aqueous systems, Ag/AgCl is used. All electrodes are immersed in an electrolyte solution such as NaCl (aqueous), tetrabutylammonium perchlorate or hexafluorophosphate (organics) to facilitate ion transfer between the working and counter electrodes.[2]
Once a potential is applied to the electrochemical system, two types of reactions or currents are observed: (1) a current caused by redox processes i.e. oxidation or reduction and (2) a current caused by the charging of the [[electrical double-layer]]. These are termed Faradaic and non-faradaic currents, respectively. See [[capacitance]] for more information. 
Owing to the redox nature of conducting polymers, electrochemistry provides a valuable tool for polymer synthesis and characterisation. The topics covered here are: 
1.	[[Electrochemical deposition of CPs]]
2.	[[Cyclic voltammetry]]
3.	[[Electrical impedance spectroscopy]]
4.	[[Capactance]]
Conducting polymers can be readily synthesised through oxidation of the conjugated monomer, dimer or oligomer’s with high oxidation tendencies.[3] Like all methods of polymerisation, electrochemical deposition generates radical cationic sites in the monomer, dimer, or oligomer to initiate chain growth.[4] 
The process involves applying an oxidation (or reduction) potential to a monomer solution, which causes the monomer to oxidise (remove an electron) on the surface of a conductive substrate.[5, 6] Due to the poor solubility in the oxidised state, the polymer will deposit on the working electrode.[7] This means that electrochemical deposition is dependent on diffusion of the monomer onto the electrode and therefore highly dependent on the concentration of the monomer and the time that the oxidation potential is applied. This idea is illustrated in Fig 1 below. 
 
Figure 2. Illusttration of electrochemical deposition of a monomer in an electrolyte solution. 
Electrochemical oxidative polymerisations can be further divided into several methods, with the most common being [[cyclic voltammetry]] (CV), [[chronoamperometry]] (CA) and [[chronopotentiometry]]. These three methods are powerful tools that are used for both polymer deposition onto a conductive substrate and as analytical tools to measure the electrochemical properties of CP films. They are defined as follows: 
1)	Cyclic voltammetry (CV): Cycles between potentials, usually from low reductive potentials to high oxidative potentials. This method deposits monomers slowly as it goes through several cycles of oxidation and reduction, to initiate, propagate and terminate chain growth.[8] 
2)	Chronoamperometry (CA): This technique measures the changes in current over time at a constant potential. A constant potential is applied to oxidise the monomer. The oxidised monomers react to form insoluble oligomers, that form a film on the conductive substrate.[2] The shape of the resulting CA curve from the monomer deposition can be studied to determine the nucleation and growth mechanisms of the CP.[9] 
3)	Chronopotentiometry: A constant current is applied to the conductive substrate which initiates polymerisation at the surface of the conductive substrate. The potential is monitored over time at a constant current. 
These methods for electrochemical deposition are considered “green” synthesis. This is because it is a chemical reaction that requires very little solvent. It only requires electricity in order for the polymerisation to occur. The problem with these methods of deposition is that the polymer is usually insoluble which is not desirable for 3D printing applications or applications that require processibility. The poor solubility also means that once these films have been synthesised, they are very difficult to characterise. Finally, since all the monomers that are in contact with the electrode will initiate a chemical reaction and propagate perhaps at different rates, electrochemical depositions are difficult to control. When there is limited control over the reaction, the molecular weight dispersity will be very large, which in turn negatively affects the properties of the polymer i.e. decreased crystallinity, more defects etc.[10]
At the PPC17 conference in Brisbane in Dec 2022, I met Prof. Christine Luscombe who gave a talk about semi-conducting polymers. In a question she received about a “green” alternative, she said exactly this about electrochemical deposition. Later, I spoke with her about my PhD project. She said that if someone could find a way to control the electrodeposition, that person would solve many of our problems in CP synthesis. I pondered upon this idea of being able to control electrodeposition. I thought it would be something really cool for a Post-Doc (First let’s get through the PhD). But perhaps I have squandered on this idea in my research – solid-state depositions. This is a whole other topic that I will get around to covering. 
References:
1.	Strasser, P. and H. Ogasawara, Chapter 6 - Surface Electrochemistry, in Chemical Bonding at Surfaces and Interfaces, A. Nilsson, L.G.M. Pettersson, and J.K. Nørskov, Editors. 2008, Elsevier: Amsterdam. p. 397-455.
2.	Rodriguez, C.A.D. and G. Tremiliosi-Filho, Electrochemical Deposition, in Encyclopedia of Tribology, Q.J. Wang and Y.-W. Chung, Editors. 2013, Springer US: Boston, MA. p. 918-922.
3.	Guimard, N.K., N. Gomez, and C.E. Schmidt, Conducting polymers in biomedical engineering. Progress in Polymer Science, 2007. 32(8): p. 876-921.
4.	Abu-Thabit, N.Y., Chemical Oxidative Polymerization of Polyaniline: A Practical Approach for Preparation of Smart Conductive Textiles. Journal of Chemical Education, 2016. 93(9): p. 1606-1611.
5.	Huchet, L., S. Akoudad, and J. Roncali, Electrosynthesis of Highly Electroactive Tetrathiafulvalene-Derivatized Polythiophenes. Advanced Materials, 1998. 10(7): p. 541-545.
6.	Qu, J., et al., Durability of Poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene) (PEDOT) films on metallic substrates for bioelectronics and the dominant role of relative shear strength. Journal of the Mechanical Behavior of Biomedical Materials, 2019. 100: p. 103376.
7.	Roncali, J., Conjugated Poiy(thiophenes): Synthesis, Functionalizatlon, and Applications. Chem. Rev., 1992. 92: p. 711-738.
8.	Elgrishi, N., et al., A Practical Beginner’s Guide to Cyclic Voltammetry. Journal of Chemical Education, 2018. 95(2): p. 197-206.
9.	Bijani, S., et al., Study of the Nucleation and Growth Mechanisms in the Electrodeposition of Micro- and Nanostructured Cu2O Thin Films. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C, 2011. 115(43): p. 21373-21382.
10.	Luscombe, C.K., S. Phan, and I. Sanskriti, Synergistic catalysis for the synthesis of semiconducting polymers. Polymer Journal, 2022.

